README.md, before:

# Joko Resilience
Joko resilience is a project offering a flexible rate limiting system based on the token bucket Algorithm.  
It uses the bucket4j library providing  a layer to make the integration with Spring Boot applications easy.

### Spring Boot compatibility
The library has been tested with the following Spring boot versions:

* Spring Boot 1.5.x and above
* Spring Boot 2.x and above

### Java compatibility
The library has been tested with the following JDK versions:

* JDK 8
* JDK 11

### Configuring the rate limit system
### Dependencies
joko resilience is based on Spring HandlerInterceptor, so first we need the **spring-boot-starter-web** dependency:

```
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

Then we can add the joko-resilience dependency:

```
//JAVA 11
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.github.jokoframework</groupId>
    <artifactId>joko-resilience</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

```
//JAVA 8
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.github.jokoframework</groupId>
    <artifactId>joko-resilience</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0-jdk8</version>
</dependency>
```
#### General configuration
We can configure the Rate limiting system using the following properties:

| Property                                                 | Description                                                                                                                                                                 | Default Value                             | Accepted Values       |
|----------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------|
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.enabled                      | Activate or deactivate the whole rate limiting system.                                                                                                                      | **true**                                  | **true** or **false** |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.interceptor.patterns         | Configures the global pattern or patterns for which he interceptors will be activated. Affects the **JokoRateLimitInterceptor** and the **JokoGlobalRateLimitInterceptor**. | /**                                       | string                |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.interceptor.patterns.exclude | Configures the global pattern or patterns that will be excluded from the interceptors. Affects the **JokoRateLimitInterceptor** and the **JokoGlobalRateLimitInterceptor**. | empty string                              | string                |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.resources.exclude            | Exclude requests to resources like css or images from the interceptors scope.                                                                                               | **true**                                  | **true** or **false** |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.token.capacity               | The number of request available for a bucket in a range of time (refill time). The default value is 10 requests.                                                            | 10                                        | int number            |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.token.refill                 | The number of request to refill after the refill time passed. The default value is the same of the capacity.                                                                | The same of capacity                      | int number            |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.token.refill.wait            | The range of time in seconds for the token refill to happen. The default value is 60 seconds.                                                                               | 60                                        | int number            |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.auth.header-name             | The name of the header to be used o generate a bucket identifier. We recommend using an authorization token or api key.                                                     | Authorization                             | string                |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.auth.jsession.cookie.enabled | Use the JSESSIONID cookie value to generate a bucket identifier. Useful for single layer applications using Spring Security                                                 | **false**                                 | **true** or **false** |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.error.message                | Message to show in the response when the request quota is exhausted.                                                                                                        | You have exhausted your API Request Quota | string                |

#### Interceptors
The rate limiting system is based on Spring interceptors:
There are 2 interceptor available to implement a rate limiting functionality:
* **JokoRateLimitInterceptor**: Works in conjunction with annotations o limit specific Request
* **JokoGlobalRateLimitInterceptor**: Works based on a path limiting all request that falls under the given path

#### Configuring the interceptors
First we need to configure the interceptors. Doing this is slightly different depending on which version of Spring
Boot we're using.

#### Spring Boot 2.x
For Spring boot 2 we have 3 special config classes we can extend. All we need to do 
is to extend this classes in a configuration component, and we're done. Ex:

**JokoRateLimiterConfig**: Inject the **JokoRateLimitInterceptor** for specific requests.
```
@Configuration
public class RateLimitingConfig extends JokoRateLimiterConfig {
}
```
**JokoGlobalRateLimiterConfig**: Inject the **JokoGlobalRateLimitInterceptor** for request patterns.
```
@Configuration
public class RateLimitingConfig extends JokoGlobalRateLimiterConfig {
}
```
**JokoHybridRateLimiterConfig**: Inject both interceptors.

```
@Configuration
public class RateLimitingConfig extends JokoHybridRateLimiterConfig {
}
```

#### Spring Boot 1.5.x
For Spring boot 1.5 we need to do it slightly different because of the Spring Boot core differences between versions
For his we can use the **JokoInterceptorUtils** component. Ex:

```
@Configuration
@ComponentScan("io.github.jokoframework.resilience.ratelimiter.config") // Need to scan he config package to inject necessary components
public class RateLimiterConfig extends WebMvcConfigurerAdapter {

    @Autowired
    private JokoInterceptorUtils jokoInterceptorUtils;

    // We add the inerceptor using he JokoInterceptorUtils component
    @Override
    public void addInterceptors(InterceptorRegistry registry) {
        jokoInterceptorUtils.addJokoRateLimitInterceptor(registry);
        jokoInterceptorUtils.addJokoGlobalRateLimitInterceptor(registry);
    }

}
```

#### Limiting Specific request
To limit specific request, we need to make use of the **@RateLimit** annotation in conjunction
with the **JokoRateLimitInterceptor**.

After the configuration is ready all we need to do is annotate the desired controller request:

```
@PutMapping("password/change")
@RateLimit
public ResponseEntity<ChangePasswordResponse> changePassword(@PathVariable("userId") Long userId,
                                                             @Valid @RequestBody PasswordChangeRequest passwordChangeRequest) {
    return ResponseEntity.ok(authenticationService.changePassword(userId, passwordChangeRequest));
}
```

We can also pass the rate limit attributes in the annotation itself to configure a request wih specific values:

* **tokenCapacity**: The number of request available for a bucket in a range of time (refill time).
* **tokenRefill**:The number of request to refill after the refill time passed.
* **refillWaitTime**:The range of time in seconds for the token refill to happen;

```
@PutMapping("password/change")
@RateLimit(tokenCapacity = 5, tokenRefill = 5, refillWaitTime = 30)
public ResponseEntity<ChangePasswordResponse> changePassword(@PathVariable("userId") Long userId,
                                                             @Valid @RequestBody PasswordChangeRequest passwordChangeRequest) {
    return ResponseEntity.ok(authenticationService.changePassword(userId, passwordChangeRequest));
}
```

## Building from source
The library can be generated from source for java 8 and 11 using prebuild gradle
tasks:

### JAVA 8
To build the jar for java 8 we can use the following gradle task:

```
./gradlew generateJava8Artifact
```

This will generate a jar file for the jdk 8 under the folder **build/libs** with the
**-jdk8** suffix. For example if the version is **1.0.0** the jar will be generated with
the following name:

```
/build/libs/joko-resilience-1.0.0-jdk8.jar
```

### JAVA 11
To build the jar for java 11 we can use the following gradle task:

```
./gradlew generateJava11Artifact
```

This will generate a jar file for the jdk 11 under the folder **build/libs**.
For example if the version is **1.0.0** the jar will be generated with
the following name:

```
/build/libs/joko-resilience-1.0.0.jar
```

## Publishing to maven repositories

### Publishing to local repository
The jar can be published directly to the default local maven repository using the
following gradle tasks:

###### JAVA 8
```
./gradlew publishJava8Local
```
###### JAVA 11
```
./gradlew publishJava11Local
```

>OBS: Publishing directly to a custom local maven repository folder is not yet supported

### Publishing to an artifactory
For publishing to an artifactory repository we need first to create a **gradle.properties** file in
the project **root**, containing the following props:

```
artifactory_contextUrl=https://yourartifactoryurl
artifactory_user=artifactoryuser
artifactory_password=artifactorypassword
```

Then the jar can be published directly to an artifactory repository using the
following gradle tasks:

###### JAVA 8
```
./gradlew publishJava8Artifactory
```
###### JAVA 11
```
./gradlew publishJava11Artifactory
```

>OBS: The jar files will be published under **libs-release-local** in the artifactory.
> This is not yet configurable and there is no direct snapshots support.

Commit message:

Agrega anotación para remover request de todo proceso de Rate Limiting

README.md, after:

# Joko Resilience
Joko resilience is a project offering a flexible rate limiting system based on the token bucket Algorithm.  
It uses the bucket4j library providing  a layer to make the integration with Spring Boot applications easy.

### Spring Boot compatibility
The library has been tested with the following Spring boot versions:

* Spring Boot 1.5.x and above
* Spring Boot 2.x and above

### Java compatibility
The library has been tested with the following JDK versions:

* JDK 8
* JDK 11

### Configuring the rate limit system
### Dependencies
joko resilience is based on Spring HandlerInterceptor, so first we need the **spring-boot-starter-web** dependency:

```
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

Then we can add the joko-resilience dependency:

```
//JAVA 11
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.github.jokoframework</groupId>
    <artifactId>joko-resilience</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

```
//JAVA 8
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.github.jokoframework</groupId>
    <artifactId>joko-resilience</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0-jdk8</version>
</dependency>
```
#### General configuration
We can configure the Rate limiting system using the following properties:

| Property                                                 | Description                                                                                                                                                                 | Default Value                             | Accepted Values       |
|----------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------|
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.enabled                      | Activate or deactivate the whole rate limiting system.                                                                                                                      | **true**                                  | **true** or **false** |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.interceptor.patterns         | Configures the global pattern or patterns for which he interceptors will be activated. Affects the **JokoRateLimitInterceptor** and the **JokoGlobalRateLimitInterceptor**. | /**                                       | string                |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.interceptor.patterns.exclude | Configures the global pattern or patterns that will be excluded from the interceptors. Affects the **JokoRateLimitInterceptor** and the **JokoGlobalRateLimitInterceptor**. | empty string                              | string                |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.resources.exclude            | Exclude requests to resources like css or images from the interceptors scope.                                                                                               | **true**                                  | **true** or **false** |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.token.capacity               | The number of request available for a bucket in a range of time (refill time). The default value is 10 requests.                                                            | 10                                        | int number            |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.token.refill                 | The number of request to refill after the refill time passed. The default value is the same of the capacity.                                                                | The same of capacity                      | int number            |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.token.refill.wait            | The range of time in seconds for the token refill to happen. The default value is 60 seconds.                                                                               | 60                                        | int number            |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.auth.header-name             | The name of the header to be used o generate a bucket identifier. We recommend using an authorization token or api key.                                                     | Authorization                             | string                |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.auth.jsession.cookie.enabled | Use the JSESSIONID cookie value to generate a bucket identifier. Useful for single layer applications using Spring Security                                                 | **false**                                 | **true** or **false** |
| joko.resilience.ratelimiter.error.message                | Message to show in the response when the request quota is exhausted.                                                                                                        | You have exhausted your API Request Quota | string                |

#### Interceptors
The rate limiting system is based on Spring interceptors:
There are 2 interceptor available to implement a rate limiting functionality:
* **JokoRateLimitInterceptor**: Works in conjunction with annotations o limit specific Request
* **JokoGlobalRateLimitInterceptor**: Works based on a path limiting all request that falls under the given path

#### Configuring the interceptors
First we need to configure the interceptors. Doing this is slightly different depending on which version of Spring
Boot we're using.

#### Spring Boot 2.x
For Spring boot 2 we have 3 special config classes we can extend. All we need to do 
is to extend this classes in a configuration component, and we're done. Ex:

**JokoRateLimiterConfig**: Inject the **JokoRateLimitInterceptor** for specific requests.
```
@Configuration
public class RateLimitingConfig extends JokoRateLimiterConfig {
}
```
**JokoGlobalRateLimiterConfig**: Inject the **JokoGlobalRateLimitInterceptor** for request patterns.
```
@Configuration
public class RateLimitingConfig extends JokoGlobalRateLimiterConfig {
}
```
**JokoHybridRateLimiterConfig**: Inject both interceptors.

```
@Configuration
public class RateLimitingConfig extends JokoHybridRateLimiterConfig {
}
```

#### Spring Boot 1.5.x
For Spring boot 1.5 we need to do it slightly different because of the Spring Boot core differences between versions
For his we can use the **JokoInterceptorUtils** component. Ex:

```
@Configuration
@ComponentScan("io.github.jokoframework.resilience.ratelimiter.config") // Need to scan he config package to inject necessary components
public class RateLimiterConfig extends WebMvcConfigurerAdapter {

    @Autowired
    private JokoInterceptorUtils jokoInterceptorUtils;

    // We add the inerceptor using he JokoInterceptorUtils component
    @Override
    public void addInterceptors(InterceptorRegistry registry) {
        jokoInterceptorUtils.addJokoRateLimitInterceptor(registry);
        jokoInterceptorUtils.addJokoGlobalRateLimitInterceptor(registry);
    }

}
```

#### Limiting Specific request
To limit specific request, we need to make use of the **@RateLimit** annotation in conjunction
with the **JokoRateLimitInterceptor**.

After the configuration is ready all we need to do is annotate the desired controller request:

```
@PutMapping("password/change")
@RateLimit
public ResponseEntity<ChangePasswordResponse> changePassword(@PathVariable("userId") Long userId,
                                                             @Valid @RequestBody PasswordChangeRequest passwordChangeRequest) {
    return ResponseEntity.ok(authenticationService.changePassword(userId, passwordChangeRequest));
}
```

We can also pass the rate limit attributes in the annotation itself to configure a request wih specific values:

* **tokenCapacity**: The number of request available for a bucket in a range of time (refill time).
* **tokenRefill**:The number of request to refill after the refill time passed.
* **refillWaitTime**:The range of time in seconds for the token refill to happen;

```
@PutMapping("password/change")
@RateLimit(tokenCapacity = 5, tokenRefill = 5, refillWaitTime = 30)
public ResponseEntity<ChangePasswordResponse> changePassword(@PathVariable("userId") Long userId,
                                                             @Valid @RequestBody PasswordChangeRequest passwordChangeRequest) {
    return ResponseEntity.ok(authenticationService.changePassword(userId, passwordChangeRequest));
}
```

#### Leaving a specific request out of the Rate Limiter with an annotation
To unlimit a specific request, we need to make use of the **@RateLimitExclude** annotation, which has no parameters

This is useful when you have two requests associated to the same path (With different HTTP verbs), but you only want
to limit one of them, if you do not add this annotation to the excluded one you will require to provide the Joko
Resilience Header (Even though it wont be actually limited if it recieved the header)

## Building from source
The library can be generated from source for java 8 and 11 using prebuild gradle
tasks:

### JAVA 8
To build the jar for java 8 we can use the following gradle task:

```
./gradlew generateJava8Artifact
```

This will generate a jar file for the jdk 8 under the folder **build/libs** with the
**-jdk8** suffix. For example if the version is **1.0.0** the jar will be generated with
the following name:

```
/build/libs/joko-resilience-1.0.0-jdk8.jar
```

### JAVA 11
To build the jar for java 11 we can use the following gradle task:

```
./gradlew generateJava11Artifact
```

This will generate a jar file for the jdk 11 under the folder **build/libs**.
For example if the version is **1.0.0** the jar will be generated with
the following name:

```
/build/libs/joko-resilience-1.0.0.jar
```

## Publishing to maven repositories

### Publishing to local repository
The jar can be published directly to the default local maven repository using the
following gradle tasks:

###### JAVA 8
```
./gradlew publishJava8Local
```
###### JAVA 11
```
./gradlew publishJava11Local
```

>OBS: Publishing directly to a custom local maven repository folder is not yet supported

### Publishing to an artifactory
For publishing to an artifactory repository we need first to create a **gradle.properties** file in
the project **root**, containing the following props:

```
artifactory_contextUrl=https://yourartifactoryurl
artifactory_user=artifactoryuser
artifactory_password=artifactorypassword
```

Then the jar can be published directly to an artifactory repository using the
following gradle tasks:

###### JAVA 8
```
./gradlew publishJava8Artifactory
```
###### JAVA 11
```
./gradlew publishJava11Artifactory
```

>OBS: The jar files will be published under **libs-release-local** in the artifactory.
> This is not yet configurable and there is no direct snapshots support.
